---
layout: page
title: "CITI Training"
title-url: "2015-08-16-tips-citi.html"
author: David Joyner
groups: Introduction
categories: tips-for-class
topics: CITI-training
summary: >
    David Joyner discusses CITI, CITI training, and requirements for CS6460.
cite: |
    Joyner, David. (2015). Tips for Class: CITI Training.
        Udacity.  August 16, 2015.
pub-date: 2015-08-16
added-date: 2015-08-16
---
# CITI Training

An [Institutional Review Board](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Institutional_review_board), or IRB,
is a university organization that oversees human subjects research. If you want to do any research
 on human subjects, then your research must be approved by IRB. We'll talk about how to get IRB
 approval in the [Research Basics](./RPM_ResarchBasics.md) portion of this course.

However, before you can even seek IRB approval, you need to complete the IRB's
required training regimen. If you plan to do human subjects research, you
should complete CITI training right away. You can find instructions on
completing CITI training and links to get started [here](http://researchintegrity.gatech.edu/about-irb/irb-required-training)

Human subjects research can include any of the following:

* Asking people to complete surveys.
* Interviewing people on their experience with a tool.
* Asking people to use a tool in a controlled, potentially recorded, setting.
* Pulling already-existing data on people, such as data on OMS students.


Note that IRB approval and CITI training are only necessary if you would
like to ultimately publish the results of your work in an academic
publication. If you want to ask some friends to evaluate a tool you
develop or talk to potential users to gather requirements and information,
those would not automatically qualify as human subjects research. If the
ultimate goal of the work is to create a tool, you may not need IRB approval
and CITI training. If the ultimate goal of the work is to make a claim
(even if the claim is _about_ a tool), then you'll need IRB approval and CITI training.
